<h1>Guidelines for Metadata Descriptions of Products</h1>
The following sections describe the details of the SPASE Data Model, 
especially the metadata used to describe data. There is a richness in 
the available metadata that allows very detailed descriptions of 
products. Many of the types of metadata may not apply in your case or 
you may not need much detail to adequately describe your data holdings. 
But it must be remembered that the better data are described, the easier 
they will be to use.

To determine what level of detail is needed, we recommend considering 
not only what the user needs to find the correct data, but also what is 
needed to know if the data will be useful for the requestor’s purpose. 
The user might get this information by contacting you, but if the data 
were moved somewhere else and only the data description were available 
to determine the utility, consider if the user would have sufficient 
information to know if this is the right data set and what problems 
might be associated with the use of these data. Documentation may be 
added as a Resource Type to a future version of the SPASE Data Model, 
but for now we recommend using "Information URLs," available for each 
resource, to provide links to more detailed information about data 
products and their sources. 

In summary, products need not be described in minute detail, but users 
will need, at minimum, information for assessing what the data products 
represent and where to find them. Of course it is also useful to 
include information on how the data can be applied and common 
pitfalls in their use, but the first need is to make the products 
usefully visible.

