<h1>Executive Summary</h1>
Research in Heliophysics requires information from multiple sources 
which includes data from and about spacecrafts, groundbased 
observatories, models, simulations and more. The results from research 
are also invaluable in building up a body of knowledge and need to be 
available. All the different sources and types of information are 
considered a "Resource". The Resources exist, are shared, exchanged and 
used in a framework called the "data environment". The SPASE (Space 
Physics Archive Search and Extract) group has defined a Data Model 
which is a set of terms and values along with the relationships between 
them that allow describing all the resources in a heliophysics data 
environment.  It is the result of many years of effort by an 
international collaboration of heliophysicists and information 
scientists to unify and improve on existing Space and Solar Physics 
data models.  The intent of this Data Model is to provide the means to 
describe resources, most importantly scientifically useful data 
products, in a uniform way so they may be easily registered, found, 
accessed, and used.

The Data Model provides enough detail to allow a scientist to understand 
the content of Data Products (e.g., a set of files for 3 second 
resolution Geotail magnetic field data for1992 to 2005), together with 
essential retrieval and contact information. It also allows for the 
incremental annotation of resources with expert assessments and the free 
association of resources to create bundles or networks of resources. 
Resource descriptions can be stored with the data or at remote 
locations. Sites can harvest the resource descriptions to enable 
services like a search engine or portal (Virtual Observatory). A typical 
use would be to have a collection of descriptions stored in one or more 
related internet-based registries of products; that can be queried with 
specifically designed search engines and ultimately link users to the 
data they need. The Data Model also provides constructs for describing 
components of such a data delivery system. This includes repositories, 
registries and services.

This document provides a specification of the SPASE Data Model. Sections 
2 and 3 provide an overview of the origins and the concepts of the data 
model. Section 4 presents the set of elements in a hierarchy that shows 
the defined relationships among them. This is followed by usage 
suggestion and pedagogic examples in Section 5 and 6, and by the 
complete set of definitions of terms and enumerated lists in Section 7.

The SPASE group website is located at http://www.spase-group.org/

A PDF version of this document can be downloaded from the SPASE site.
